About Nub And Our History
Keeping in step with the rapidly increasing demand for higher education, the Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh passed the Private Universities Act in 1992 which has been revised and replaced by Private University Act 2010. Following the1992 the Act, Bangladesh witnessed a sudden flux of private universities with the promise to provide higher education to students that will be at par with global standards.

Knowledge for Innovation and Change.
__Northern University Bangladesh.

In 2002, a group of eminent academics recognized this exponential increase in demand and established Northern University Bangladesh on 17 October in order to bring quality education within the reach of students with modest economic means. Sponsored and founded by International Business Agriculture & Technology (IBAT) Trust now known as NUB Trust (NUBT), a registered, non-political, non-profit voluntary organization, NUB made its foray in to the field of higher education and established itself as a center for excellence.
Presently Northern University Bangladesh (NUB) has 5 Faculties situated within the Dhaka Metropolitan city with its Permanent Campus near Haji camp at Ashkona, Dakshin Khan. NUB has affiliations & accreditations with international institutions in its effort to provide education that can provide students with all the tools needed to face the challenges in any chosen career from any specialized field & the global industry. NUB has been authorized to confer degrees and certificates in all branches of knowledge including Business, Arts & Humanities, Science and Engineering, Law, Pharmacy and Public Health within the levels that includes Bachelors, Masters & is in the process of acquiring the level of M Phil & Ph. D. in collaboration with foreign universities.

Northern University Bangladesh is now owned and managed by a group of academics under the illustrious and reputable banner of NUB Trust, who intend to not only provide higher education to the deserving students with moderate means but also aims to mould individuals with a specific skill set along with the value of social responsibility. Northern University Bangladesh believes in building a better future for the citizens of Bangladesh by enhancing its socio-economic empowerment.

As a great & wise man had once said:
“If we could change ourselves, the tendencies in the world would also change. As a man changes his own nature, so does the attitude of the world change towards him. … We need not wait to see what others do.”
__Mahatma Gandhi

Northern University Bangladesh believes in providing Knowledge for Innovation & Change.


Vision And Mission
Vision :
Vision of NUB is to take part in the collective efforts to enhance socio-economic development in the region by offering opportunities to obtain knowledge and skills essential for better living in the new century. Our vision tags as 'Knowledge for Innovation and Change'.
Mission :
Mission of NUB is to offer such programs of study and related functions that will be directly linked to socio-economic empowerment of the people of the country. It will also conduct educational research and developmental programs of higher quality that would be at par with industry needs, skill-ready world and real life situation.