- Academic Regulations
-- Course Registration
All students are required to register their courses by filling in the prescribed ‘Registration Form‘ (available at the respective department and in the web site) in each semester until they have fulfilled all graduation requirements. Besides, without registration credits will not be counted. The date and time of registration will be announced in the Academic Calendar by the respective department. It is expected that all students should complete their registration within the scheduled period.

However, those who are unable to register within the scheduled time must apply to the Dean/Head of the Faculty/department to explain the reasons of delay. If the Dean/Head of the Faculty/department approves the application, then a late registration may be made within the deadline. It should be noted that course registration would not be accepted unless the student gets clearance from the accounts office.

A late fee of Tk. 1000/- for late registration may be imposed as decided by the authority after the prescribed schedule.

If any student fails to complete the course registration within the deadline, then s/he shall be considered as unregistered for that particular semester and consequently s/he shall be barred from attending any classes or examinations.

-- Class Attendances
Students are required to attend all lectures, tutorials, lab works etc. of the courses that they have registered. Required percentage of attendance is mandatory for a student to be eligible to sit in the semester final examination.

-- Semester Leave / Leave of Absence
A student, who requires spending a period of time away from the university, may request for a leave of absence. In this regard, student must apply stating valid grounds to the Head of the department through the Batch Advisor of the department concerned.
Permission for leave of absence/advance semester leave should be taken before the commencement of a new semester.
The length of leave is maximum for two semesters.
No fees will have to be paid by a student during such leave but his right to use university facilities is suspended while the leave is in effect.
A student, who is suffering from a prolonged illness, may request for further period of leave of absence on medical grounds. To qualify for such an extension a student must submit a comprehensive medical report along with the application.
If any undergraduate student is found absent/unregistered up to two semesters without having permission, s/he has to pay Tk. 1,000/- as fine for each semester dropped to continue the study at NUB.
However, if any undergraduate or postgraduate student is found absent/unregistered without permission for more than two consecutive semesters, s/he will be considered as a discontinued student. If such student wishes to continue the study, an appeal may be made to the Registrar through Head of the department for re-admission. The competent authority of the university will take the decision for re-admission.

-- Transfer of Credits
Students of other recognized universities or any higher learning institutions, may apply for credit transfer at NUB. Completed courses from said institutions should be similar & equivalent to the corresponding course(s) at NUB and only ‘B’ grade & above are accepted. The interested candidate may apply to the Head of the department along with the following documents :

Official Transcript (original) of the completed courses;
Detailed Syllabus of the completed courses;
No Objection/Migration certificate from the previous institution.

The Equivalence Committee of the respective department of NUB will determine the equivalence of the courses applied for.
The maximum credit may be allowed to transfer up to 50% of the total credits required for graduation of a particular program of study at NUB.
Students who wish to apply for credit transfer must do so at least 1 (one) week before the commencement of a semester.

-- Policies for Fees & Charges
It is the responsibility of all students to be familiarized with the procedure regarding payment of fees and others of the university.
All students are charged with the full fees and charges unless the university determines that a student pays the subsidized fees.
Tuition and semester fee for each semester should be paid in full amount during the course registration of the semester or by three fixed installments.
Dues (if any) should be settled at least two weeks before the final examination, otherwise students might be barred from sitting in the final examination. Moreover, results of their examination will be withheld until the fees are being settled.
The university has the right to revise the fee structure without any prior notice.

-- Refund Policies
A student will be entitled to get 100% refund of paid amounts, if the university is unable to offer that particular program.
A student will get 90% refund of fees paid excluding admission fee, if s/he submits an application to the Registrar for withdrawal from the program within one week of his/her admission.
If any student gets expulsion from the university due to fake information during admission, s/he will not get any refund of paid amounts at any stage

-- Course Withdrawal

A registered student shall be entitled to get 50% refund only from tuition fees payable for the respective semester as follows :

S/he must apply within the first week of classes after mid-term examinations;
Application should be submitted to the Head of the department through the Course Teacher concerned;
No application will be considered after the said period of time and consequently a student will liable to pay 100% payable amount of all charges for the semester.

-- Semester Drop

A registered student shall be entitled to get 50% refund only from tuition fees payable for the respective semester as follows :

S/he must apply within two weeks of the commencement of the semester
Application should be submitted to the Head of the department through the Batch Adviser concerned
No application will be considered after the said period of time and consequently a student will liable to pay 100% payable amount of all charges for the semester

- Academic Performance and Responsibilities of Students
-- Academic Performance
All students are required to maintain a minimum CGPA of 2.00 to remain on acceptable academic standing. If a student who obtains a CGPA below 2.00 will be considered on probation status. Accordingly a student who gets on probation status for 3 (three) consecutive semesters and if the NUB authority finds in him/her no hope of improving, s/he may be dismissed from studentship.

-- Criteria For Semester Promotion
No semester fail status would exist under the credit hour system. If any student earns minimum "D" grade in a course, s/he would be credited and promoted.

-- Policies for course repeat /Improvement
For an ‘F’ grade, the course must be repeated within the next three consecutive semesters, but pre-requisite course (if any) should be repeated on priority basis.
As for the improvement of any grade (up to ‘A-’ grade), the incumbent student may be allowed to repeat only one time for a particular course, which should be repeated within next three consecutive semesters.
However, if any student wishes to take this privilege, s/he has to take written permission from the Head of the department and a copy of permission must be sent to the office of the Controller of Examinations within three days from the date of publication of results.
Better grade will be accepted against that particular course for improvement in question, and the previous grade will be marked as ‘R’ (repeated), and excluded from GPA computation.
For repeat/improvement of a course, a student has to register the course as per rule.

-- Academic Dismissal
A student shall be dismissed frosm the University if:
S/he gets admitted by giving fake information,
S/he committed a breach of any of the university regulations.
His/her semester GPA is less than 2.00 consecutively in 3 (three) semesters.
S/he fails a particular course up to fourth attempt.
The NUB also reserves the right to suspend or dismiss any student from the university or any of its classes for the interest of university.
Besides these, regarding academic dismisal, different codes of NUB (like, Students Code, Exam Code, Exam Offense Code etc.) will be followed.

-- Disciplinary Action
(I) A student, whose behavior does not conform to NUB regulations, is a subject to disciplinary action. As a politics free institution, NUB absolutely prohibits any political activities (direct or indirect) within the NUB campus. Any sorts of demonstration, procession, postering, bannering against the rules & regulations of university and administrative decisions is strictly prohibited.

(II) It is also strictly prohibited that no one is allowed to organize any movement against any academic or administrative staff of NUB.

(III) A student, who is found involved in any of those prohibitions, may face disciplinary action from the university.

Besides these, disciplinary action will be made on as per the vide code “Student’s Code of Conduct” of NUB.

-- Graduation requirement

All required credits of the program should be passed within the maximum length of period (4 to 6 years).
Minimum CGPA should be at least 2.00.
Should be free from any negative report from the NUB authority.
Have fulfilled co-curricular requirements.
Have fulfilled other requirements of the university.

- Examination System
-- Eligibility for Entry to Examination

No student shall be eligible to take part in any semester final examination unless :

(I) S/he is officially registered for particular course(s);

(II) S/he has fulfilled the required percentage of class attendance & other requirements;

(III) S/he has fulfilled the required payments of fees and charges etc.

-- Attendance in Semester Final Examination

(I) A registered student is required to attend in the semester final examinations and s/he must put the signature in the exam attendance sheet of all courses.

(II) If any student who is found absent in examination without permission, s/he will be deemed to have failed the course and consequently an ‘X’ grade will be recorded in the semester result against the course(s). If not replaced within two weeks of the beginning of the next semester, it will automatically converted to ‘F’ grade

-- Cheating in Examination

(I) If a student is found to have committed a breach of any rules and regulations of the examinations or any procedures/instructions made there under the regulations, such candidate shall be deemed to have committed an offence and will be liable to disciplinary action. Such action may like be drop of the current semester, expulsion for an academic year or expulsion from the university etc based on the weight and gravity of the offence. In addition, student will be deprived from enjoying any financial assistance in the following semesters as the NUB authority decides on case by case basis.

(II) If a student receives expulsion from the university for cheating, s/he cannot be re-admitted.

Besides this, any irregularities regarding examination offence will be solved by the code “Examination Offences and Disciplinary Actions” of NUB.

-- Special Examination

(A) Special Final Examination

If any student cannot appear at semester final examination on medical grounds or unavoidable circumstances acceptable to the concerned authority, s/he may opt to sit for the special examination for the missing course(s).
 An application should be submitted to the Controller of Examinations within 7 (seven) days from the date of exam held through the Head of the department with the supporting documents.
Supporting documents (medical certificates etc) should be attested by the NUB panel doctor/Head of the department concerned.
If the application is approved then an “I” (incomplete) grade will be given in the semester final result by the Examination Division.
 A student is also allowed for special final examinations only for “I” graded course(s).
Special final examinations must be held within two (2) weeks of the commencement of the following semester.
 If any student fails to appear at special final examination on that stipulated time, then ‘F’ (fail) will be given in his/her course(s).
 Special final examination fee is Tk. 1,000/- (or as decided by the authority from time to time) per course.
(B)  Special Mid-term Examination

No provision will exist for special Mid term examination.
If any student fails to appear at Mid-term exam, s/he may withdraw from such course by paying 50% of tuition fees per course.
(C) Special Re-sit Examination

If a student gets fail status in the final semester, s/he can avail the chance for special (re-sit) examination maximum for two (02) courses only.
A student must take prior permission for special (re-sit) examination from the Controller of Examinations through the Head of the department within two weeks from the date of publication of results.
Fee of special (re-sit) examination is Tk. 2,000/- per course.
Special (re-sit) examination will be held on 100 marks within two (2) weeks of the commencement of the following semester.
If a student gets fail in the special (re-sit) examination in any course, s/he has to register that particular course in the following semester by paying as usual fees (i.e. cr. hr. basis) and other charges.

-- Appeal for Re-evalution of the answer scripts / Result

(I) If any student wants to re-evaluate his/her Answer Scripts of the final examination, s/he has to submit a written application to the Controller of Examinations within 7 (seven) days from the date of publication of the results.

(II) Fee for re-evaluation is Tk. 500/- per course.

(III) If a student receives expulsion from the university for cheating, s/he cannot be re-admitted.

Besides this, any irregularities regarding examination offence will be solved by the vide code “Examination Offences and Disciplinary Actions” of NUB.

-- Grounds of Appeal of Re-evaluation

An appeal may be made on any or all of the following grounds:

(I) If a student strongly believes that s/he deserves more marks than s/he got;

(II) If a student believes that, her/his marks have not been counted in full.

Besides these, the examination system i.e. all kinds of examinations of NUB will be conducted as per the vide code “Code of Conduct of Examinations” of NUB.

-- Policy for Re-Admission

(I) A student, who is dismissed once from the university, will not be considered for re-admission.

(II) However, consideration may be given to case by case, based on medical/emergency reasons that are acceptable to NUB authority.

(III) Application of re-admission should be submitted to the Registrar, through the Head of the department and the decision on the appeal for re-admission will be subject to university rules as framed from time to time.

(IV) A written recommendation for re-admission must be submitted by the parents (physically) along with the application, stating the valid causes of drop.

(V) Without a written recommendation of parents and without the physical attendance of parents, no application for re-admission will be considered.

(VI) Fee of re-admission is Tk. 5,000/- (five thousand), effective from summer 2007.

-- Policy for Merit Scholarship

Merit scholarship (based on semester final results) will be available under conditions stated below :

(I) Minimum size of the class is 10 (students);

(II) Minimum load of a student is 10 credit hours (applicable for 4 months duration of a semester)

(III) Minimum load of a student is 15 credit hours (applicable for 6 months duration of a semester)

(IV) Minimum CGPA for availing the merit scholarship is 3.50.

-- Policy for Double Major

NUB introduces the provision for double major upon fulfilling the following requirements:

(I) The student must get prior permission from the Head of the department for second major before the final examination of last semester, and a copy of permission must be sent to the office of the Controller of Examinations immediately.

(II) The student must complete his/her degree from this university.

(III) Upon completion of the second major, only one certificate would be issued.

(IV) After publication of final result, no application would be considered for second major.

-- Name of the Graduates
(I) Academic Credentials (provisional certificate, main certificate, academic transcript, testimonial etc) will be prepared for students of NUB as per spelling of their names printed in their main certificates /transcripts of SSC/Dakhil/equivalent examinations.

(II) After publishing of said the academic credentials (maintaining the above-mentioned criteria), if any student found any problem in his/her name, then s/he must apply to the Controller of Examinations for correction of name with corrected spelling along with Tk. 500/- as correction charge.

(III) Due to unavailability of English spelling of a name in the whole academic career of a student, the said academic credentials will be prepared as per the English spelling written by the student in his/her ‘Admission Form’ of NUB.

(IV) If NUB found Bengali name of a student in the certificate/transcript of SSC or equivalent examination then, English name will be considered from immediate after (SSC/equivalent) educational documents (if any).

(V) No professional degree like Doctor, Barrister, Advocate etc will be printed in the beginning of a name. If any student wants to add such professional degree in the beginning of his/her name, then s/he must get prior permission from the Controller of Examinations.

(VI) Above rules shall come in to force from spring semester 2008.

Transcript

(I) Normally, final Transcript is issued after a formal confirmation of a degree by the Central Board of Examination of NUB.

(II) Fee of each set of final Transcript is Tk. 500/- (PVC+Transcript).

(III) A partial (semester) transcript may also be issued on request, and a fee of Tk. 50/- is imposed for each semester.

(IV) If any body looses his/her final transcript, then s/he has to apply to the Controller of Examinations along with the copy of the general diary (GD) made with a police station.

(V) After necessary verification, the Examination Department will issue a duplicate transcript to the incumbent student and the word “Duplicate” will be printed on the transcript.

-- Provisional / Main Certificate

(I) After a formal confirmation of the degree by the Central Board of Examination of NUB, a Provisional Certificate is issued to the students prior to holding the convocation.

(II) The main certificate is issued after the degree is conferred at the convocation by the Chancellor of the University, provided that the Provisional Certificate must be surrendered by the student to the office of the Controller of Examinations.

(III) If any body looses his/her Provisional Certificate, then s/he has to apply to the Controller of Examinations along with the copy of the general diary (GD) made with a police station and a copy of "lost" notice published in a national daily vernacular newspaper.

(IV) After necessary verification, the Examination Division will issue a duplicate Provisional/Main certificate to the incumbent student and the word “Duplicate” will be printed on the certificate.

(V) Urgent PVC Certificate Fee: The applicant must submit an application to the Vice-Chancellor through the Controller's Office with a certificate fee of Tk. 1000/- (One Thousand) Only.

(VI) Grade Change Certificate Fee is Tk. 500/- (Five Hubdred) Only.

-- Release of Student Information

Student’s records/information are considered as highly confidential. Therefore -

(I) All confidential information will be supplied directly to the incumbent students only.

(II) No confidential information (like results) will be given over telephone/e-mail to the student or to the parents/guardians of students.

(III) No confidential information will be furnished to a student’s parents/guardians without written consent of the student.

-- Testimonial and Student Performance Report:

A student, has to pay Tk. 100/- (One Hundred) only for each documents to respective Student Finance section.