Admission Information
Admission Requirments
 

(A)For Bachelors Programs : Minimum GPA 2.5 in both SSC and HSC or equivalent examinations or ‘O’ level in five subjects and ‘A’ level in two subjects with minimum ‘C’ grade in each or US High School Diploma.
(B) For Postgraduate Programs : Minimum Bachelor degree relevant to the Postgraduate programs. Please refer the specific admission requirements relating to the desired program of study in the faculty link(i.e. Faculty of Health Science).
 

Application Procedure
Interested candidates may collect ‘Application Form’ from the admission offices mentioned below. It may be noted that cost of an application package is Tk. 300/- (payable in cash).
After filling up please submit the Application Form to the admission offices along with :
 Photocopies of the academic credentials (Transcript, Testimonial, Certificate and certificate of professional degree etc.)
All photocopies of academic credentials should be attested by a 1st class gazetted officer.
 6 (Six) copies of recent color photographs (3 stamp-size + 3 P.P -size).
All submitted applications will be verified by the admission committee whether these are eligible for the program or not.
 

For Overseas student
Application Procedure
Northern University Bangladesh welcomes international students and makes every effort to assist them to get admitted in its academic programs, special consideration is given to the students from SAARC countries, South and South-East Asia.
Anyone satisfying the eligibility criteria for admission is welcome to apply. Foreign nationals currently living in Bangladesh, may also take the opportunity to join in the different programs. The tuition fees and other charges of the programs are at a reasonable level.
The cost of living in Bangladesh is one of the lowest in the SAARC region. Our campus is situated mainly in Dhaka metropolitan Area. The cost of accommodation and meals will be approximately US$ 100 per month. The applicants from abroad must obtain valid VISA to study at NUB. Responsibility of getting a VISA from Bangladesh High Commission/Consulate concerned lies with the students.
All fees and charges involved for issuance of VISA or extension of VISA should be borne by the incumbent students.

 

GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS FOR THE ADMITTED STUDENTS :
Student must comply with all university regulations such as :

The university reserves the right to expel a student if s/he does not fulfill the requirements of the university or his/her behavior is disruptive;
Enrolment in a course or a program creates a binding agreement to follow academic regulations and payment of fees and charges;
Tuition fees must be paid in advance or by installment if it is agreed;
Tuition fees are not refundable after the commencement of a course;
If a course is not conducted by the university, there will be a full refund of tuition fees;
All payments must be made at ‘Shahjalal Islami Bank’ or any other prescribed bank which is payable to ‘Northern University Bangladesh’;
The university may suspend a student without notice if tuition fees are in arrears;
The university reserves the right to change the fees & charges anytime with notice;
No person or organization is authorized to make any representation or promises on behalf of NUB;
All international students must comply with all their visa status regulations as specified by the Home Office;
NUB reserves the right to change any provision or requirement at any time, even within a student’s term of enrolment. The university further reserves the right to ask the student to withdraw, for any due cause, at any time;
The university reserves to add or withdraw members from its faculty and to arrange courses, programs and facilities as teaching and economic exigencies render desirable;

pdf link of admission booklet: https://nub.ac.bd/assets/images//fee-structure/NUB%20Booklet%20Final%20Print%20Ready%202024%20L%20(1)_compressed.pdf



Why Study At Nub
Key Features

Choice of 3 starting dates per year gives students the flexibility to join the chosen program at their convenience.
North American & European standard academic curriculum.
The academic programs of NUB are well designed & comprehensive in nature.
The fees are moderate in comparison to other private universities.
Having a centre for management development and research (CMDR).
Teaching incorporates all the latest developments in business and IT.
Focus of the programs is to enable students to operate in global environments.
Programs are very contemporary and forward looking in nature.
Programs include core training in transferable skills-including English, Computing and Communication.
Modern library with rich collection of books (95,000), journals, articles, encyclopedia and reference section.
Separate placement office to assist students to find challenging & growth oriented employment & Internship. 
 

Financial Assistance

A. Result based waiver excluding LLB & Pharmacy (for undergraduate students only):

Result of SSC & HSC	Waiver
Golden GPA 5.00 (in both)	70%
Only GPA 5.00 (in both)	40%
GPA 4.80 - 4.99 (in both)	30%
GPA 4.50 - 4.79 (in both)	20%
GPA 4.00 - 4.49 (in both)	15%
GPA 3.50 - 3.99 (in both)	10%
Below 3.5	0%
N.B.: This policy will be applied during admission and for two subsequent semesters. From the third semester waiver of the students will be revised as per result (CGPA)
B.  Additional waiver (Subject to approval of the authority).

Special 5% scholarship on tuition fee for females.
 20% scholarship on tuition fee for siblings.
Special waiver for wards of Freedom Fighters.
The University Authority reserves the rights to change the fee structure at any time.
Admission test may be exempted based on combined GPA in SSC & HSC.
C.  Siblings would get 20% waiver each on tuition fees or waiver on result of SSC/HSC whichever is higher. A certificate from concerned ward commissioner and academic transcript of SSC examination should be submitted along with the application.

D.  A student will get merit scholarship @ Tk.3,000/-, 2000/-, & 1,000/- for 1st, 2nd & 3rd position respectively based on the semester final result for all undergraduate programs except B. Pharma or any other programs of bi-semester where it should be @ Tk. 4000, Tk. 3000, & Tk. 2000 respectively provided they get minimum GPA 3.50.

E. Generous financial assistance is also available for underprivileged and meritorious students. But they have to earn and maintain GPA 3.00.

Note: Above mentioned financial assistance will be available depending on some conditions as follows:

Waiver will be discontinued if any student gets GPA bellow 2.00 in any semester.
Waiver will be adjusted in the following semester.
 

Logistic supports

225 full time faculty members with proven teaching & research excellence at home & abroad.
Adjunct faculties from DU, BUET, IBA, JU, RU, RUET etc.
Well-stacked library with total collection around 1, 20,000 books.
Online Library
State-of-the-art computer lab with more than 800 computers with internet facilities.
100 Mbps dedicated internet bandwidth. Wi-Fi facility, high speed internet browsing and learning LAB at all buildings. All Class rooms are equipped with multimedia projector and faculty buildings are connected with high speed data connectivity.
18 Modern Digital Labs for Electrical, Electronics, Telecommunications and Pharmacy.
Air-conditioned classrooms with audio-visual supports.
Auditorium with modern facilities.
24 hours Security Guards with latest CCTV camera monitoring.
 

Others facilities

Generous lending facilities of text/reference books.
24 hours free Internet facility with fiber optic backbone
Student advising system.
Special English language program.
Job placement opportunity.
Fit for future framing.

online admission link: http://182.160.97.196:8088/admission/

Fees structure pdf link : https://nub.ac.bd/assets/images//fee-structure/Summer%20%202025%20-%20All.pdf