As you are aware of the fact that the vision of Northern University Bangladesh(NUB) is to create knowledge for the socio-economic development of the people of the region and their overall empowerment through application oriented disciplines to raise their skill; all our efforts in NUB is focused to those goals and  our strategies are geared to that. At NUB we seek through a seamless effort to nurture and develop the young as well as  matured minds with a mindset that constantly innovates and creates new ideas in all the braches of higher education.

Our pedagogy is modern as well as student friendly, our class room facilities are of international standard and our faculty members are world class. In this world of cut throat competition and cutting edge technology we have taken the challenge to groom our students with the skill which they can use from the day one as they enter into the job market or build their own enterprise.

In line with the goal of the university  to create, disseminate and store new knowledge, we emphasize on teaching, undertaking research and regular publication  in our university. All our campuses are well equipped with technology driven teaching aids, and all our scientific labs are providing excellent research opportunities both for students and the faculty members. Equal research facilities are also available for the business school and social science students and faculty members. We also regularly publish journals from all the faculties of the universities which are blind refereed. We patronize with great care case research for the business and the law students.

We are compliant to government and UGC rules  and our permanent campus is now being built with all the facilities of a modern campus and we hope to move there within a foreseeable future. It may be mentioned here that part of our permanent campus is already operational with some of the departments of science faculty  holding their classes regularly in that campus.  

The economy of Bangladesh is growing steadily and the private sector is  now hyper active due to supportive government policies . We now require regular flow of young and skilled graduates to run the enterprises coming up in the country. NUB is working relentlessly to provide this service for our economy.  

We believe on the basic values of the society and  the spirit of our glorious liberation war and remember with gratitude the sacrifices of our martyrs. We want our graduates to reflect these values and be the standard bearer of their almamater in whatever capacity they are serving  in future.

Prof. Dr. (Engr.) Md. Mostafizur Rahman
Vice-Chancellor (In-Charge)
Northern University Bangladesh